+++
title = "Semiotic and Technological Analysis of Photography: A Visual Literacy Study in the Educative Area"
date = 2014-10-16
authors = ["Felicidad García-Sánchez", "Roberto Therón", "José Gómez-Isla"]
publication_types = ["1"]
abstract = "This paper describes the initial stages of a PhD research work in visual literacy, including the state of art, the theoretical framework and the methodology proposed for this PhD work.The use of the photographic medium in education has varied throughout history. Photography is evolving and renewing since its beginnings, therefore it is necessary a deep review of symbols and resources that make language up. As a result, symbols and resources will be provided with meaning and they will start to be part of the current learning language used in the earliest stages of education. In the research work presented in this paper, a new approach for visual literacy teaching will be developed. To pose this new approach, an analysis of archival photographs will be performed where in order to recognize recurrent symbols or signs that have been used since the formal beginning of the photography, aimed at assessing the literacy degree and name the used symbols. To perform these analysis, this thesis project will deal with a range of population aged 3 to 16 years (with the possibility of incorporate other ages), due is in this stage where people learn to use the language and where we should also start to use visual language. To recognize what visual language is we will work with photography. Specifically, with traditional, conventional, orthodox, or formals photographs, which are thought before shooting and have a purpose (document, delight, sell...). And also work with non-orthodox. In this way it includes a new concept where this kind of photography becomes 'Non-Photography', this is the photography emerging from the unconscious, creative, gestural and, sometimes, with no other intention, but where are living more signs and symbols. This kind of photography will be one of the most important parts of the current research, in order to use it in the new approach for visual literacy teaching."
selected = false
publication = "*Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Technological Ecosystems for Enhancing Multiculturality (TEEM'14)*"
tags = ["visualization types", "knowledge visualization", "non-photography", "new visual languages", "semiotics", "visual literacy", "teaching", "photographic technology"]
url_source = "https://doi.org/10.1145/2669711.2669978"
doi = "10.1145/2669711.2669978"
+++
